Our text for today, Acts chapter 24 and verse 15,
answers a very important question that affects the lives of billions.
Now to understand that question,
I'd like to take you back to a lecture that brother Russell gave in Shanghai, China, in 1912,
and he asked this important question basically as a child.
I'd like to just quote a portion of that lecture, the beginning is introduction.
He said, well, I remember as a child inquiring, what would be the fate of the heathen,
or today we would say the unrighteous?
And the answers that I received that only through faith in Jesus, the Redeemer, is there any salvation?
Then I query, now here's the key question.
What is the penalty of their ignorance of the only name given under heaven,
or amongst men whereby we must be saved?
Well, the answer was the usual one of all our Orthodox creeds
that they would spend eternity in a hell of unutterable anguish.
Well, that's a pretty shocking answer.
Eternity of hellfire for what?
No chance to learn about Jehovah and Jesus Christ.
You're simply born at the wrong time, really?
Well, today, if you ask that same question of many Christian religions,
you're going to get some very bizarre and unjust answers.
And you can imagine that that answer of burning in hellfire for eternity
did not sit well with brother Russell, especially as he got older.
And then the rest of his lecture, he explains, that it did not match that answer of burning in hellfire,
did not match his understanding of a God of love, wisdom, justice, and power.
And he was really excited and amazed when he really understood better the Bible's answer,
Jehovah's answer for what would happen to the unrighteous.
Well, what does the Bible explain is the hope for the unrighteous,
or those who have died without a chance to learn about Jehovah or Jesus Christ?
Well, Acts chapter 24 and verse 15 is a great place to start.
There's going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.
So the unrighteous would include those when their lifetime didn't have a chance to learn about Jehovah.
Good we might say, Jehovah's not going to leave the unrighteous out.
He's going to take care of them.
But after reading this one verse, you might think to yourself,
if both the righteous and the unrighteous are going to get resurrected,
what's the point in being righteous if they're both going to get life?
Well, here's where we need other scriptures in the Bible to help us understand what Jehovah has in mind for the unrighteous.
It would be wrong to conclude from reading this one verse
that both the righteous and the unrighteous are going to get everlasting life,
especially for the unrighteous.
In the 2021 annual meeting, Brother Jeff Jackson gave a talk and he used several scriptures
and beautiful pictures to explain what the Bible's hope is for the unrighteous.
Let's review a few of the scriptures that he highlighted in that talk.
And we're going to focus on the resurrection hope for the unrighteous.
Let's first look at John chapter 5 verses 28 and 29.
John chapter 5 verses 28 and 29.
Do not be amazed at this, for the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice and come out.
Those who did good things to a resurrection of life,
and those who practiced vile things to a resurrection of judgment.
Well, did you notice the past tense who practiced vile things?
Well, Brother Jackson explained that the unrighteous are not going to be allowed to practice vile things in the new world.
So the past tense of practicing vile things must refer to the things they did in their life before they got resurrected.
Well, what then is Jesus referring to in verse 29 when he talks about a resurrection of judgment?
If they're not being judged on what they did before, they got resurrected on what will they be judged?
Well, here's where Revelation chapter 20 and verse 12 helps.
Revelation chapter 20 and verse 12.
And I saw the dead, the great and the small standing before the throne and scrolls were open.
But another scroll was opened, it is the scroll of life.
And the dead were judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds.
So the unrighteous will be taught from the new scrolls, and they'll be judged on their obedience and deeds during the thousand year reign of Christ.
Well, what if they choose to disobey or not to listen to live by Jehovah's standards?
Here they are, they're taught, they're explained what Jehovah's standards are from the new scrolls and they decide not to obey.
Why is there chapter 65 and verse 20 indicates that they will be removed immediately?
They'll not be allowed to corrupt the new world with their disobedient attitudes and actions.
Of course, on the other hand, if they choose to obey and remain faithful under the final test at the end of the thousand year reign, they could get everlasting life.
And it's this final outcome that is referred to by Daniel chapter 12 and verse 2.
Daniel chapter 12 and verse 2.
And many of those asleep in the dust of the earth will wake up, some to everlasting life, and others to reproach and to everlasting contempt.
So at the end of the thousand years is to what Daniel chapter 12 and verse 2 is referring to when the final outcome, either everlasting life or everlasting death.
Let's just review these scriptures briefly with this chart on the screen.
Acts chapter 24 and 15 and John chapter 5 verses 28 and 29 both refer to the beginning of the thousand years when the unrighteous are resurrected.
Now on what will they be judged? Well, Revelation chapter 20 and verse 12 explains that during the thousand years the resurrected unrighteous will be taught out of the new scrolls.
And they will be judged based on obedience to what is outlined in the new scrolls.
Of course, if they choose disobedience, that will lead to removal as Isaiah 65 and verse 20 indicates.
And Daniel chapter 12 and verse 2 refers to the final outcome, the final everlasting outcome for the resurrection of the unrighteous.
Isn't it amazing and wonderful to see what Jehovah has in mind for the hope for the unrighteous?
You know, today governments, they fight for their sovereignty. They fight wars over their sovereignty over this piece of land.
And soldiers and civilians are simply to them collateral damage in trying to establish their sovereignty.
Satan has callously sacrificed billions of lives in his effort to challenge Jehovah's sovereignty.
But Jehovah, he never considered the unrighteous as collateral damage even when defending his sovereignty.
He viewed them rather as precious lives that he's going to resurrect and offer them the opportunity for everlasting life that Satan took from them.
The solution that Jehovah has put in place for the resurrection of the unrighteous is yet another beautiful example of the love, wisdom, justice, and power of our great God, Jehovah.